OSDOCS-10893: Enabling the dynamic configuration manager (#86283)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ne-dynamic-config-manager.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/routes/route-configuration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-ne-dynamic-config-manager_{context}"]
= Enabling the dynamic configuration manager

You can enable the dynamic configuration manager for your template routers (like HAProxy).

.Procedure

. Enable the HAProxy Config Manager.
+
Set the UseHAProxyConfigManager flag to true in your TemplateRouterConfigManager.

. Set the Commit Interval.
+

> Define the interval at which the router commits changes using the CommitInterval option. The default value is set to 60 * 60 seconds (1 hour).

Reviewer: The commit interval set to very low values (seconds, minutes) may cancel out all advantages of the dynamic configuration manager. Because the commit leads to the router reload which may increase the memory consumption as you mentioned. In OCP 4.18 release we don't expose any knob (even unsupported) to change the commit interval. So, its value remains an opinionated engineering decision.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/routes/route-configuration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-ne-dynamic-config-manager_{context}"]
= Enabling the dynamic configuration manager

> Some template routers, like HAProxy, use a dynamic configuration manager to propagate route and endpoint changes through a dynamic API. This approach allows the underlying router to adapt to changes efficiently and ensures that the system can scale and adjust as needed. The HAProxy manager uses this dynamic API to modify the operational state of HAProxy backends. Endpoint changes, such as scaling and node evictions, are managed by provisioning each backend with a pool of dynamic servers. The size of this dynamic servers pool is controlled by the max-dynamic-servers option or the ROUTER_MAX_DYNAMIC_SERVERS environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The router uses a dynamic configuration manager to propagate endpoint changes using dynamic HAPRoxy API. This approach allows the router to adapt to changes efficiently reducing the number of reloads needed and hence the memory footprint. The dynamic configuration manager uses the HAProxy dynamic API to modify the operational state of HAProxy backends. Endpoint changes, such as scaling up and down, are managed by provisioning each backend with a pool of dynamic servers.
```

- We don't support other router templates by the HAProxy so we can omit the details about different templates.
- The configuration of the number of dynamic server is unsupported so we should not mention it.

> .Procedure

Reviewer: The whole procedure seems to be coming from the old docs of OCP 3.11. The dynamic configuration manager is now enabled by default but only when TechPreview featureset is used. So, it's a techpreview feature.

Reviewer: After a discussion with the team. We think that may be a release notes update similar to [this one](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/release_notes/ocp-4-16-release-notes.html#ocp-4-16-installation-and-update-gcp-capi_release-notes) would be enough.

Author: Thanks! I'm happy to do that. While working on this, I noticed that there seems to be a lot of HAProxy and router environment variable information that appears in the 3.x documentation but not in the 4.x documentation. Would creating a 4.x document similar to the following be something we should consider for the 4.19 release: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/install_config/router/default_haproxy_router.html

Reviewer: > While working on this, I noticed that there seems to be a lot of HAProxy and router environment variable information that appears in the 3.x documentation but not in the 4.x documentation. Would creating a 4.x document similar to the following be something we should consider for the 4.19 release: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/install_config/router/default_haproxy_router.html

No, those were the variables available in 3.11. We consider DCM as an implementation detail in 4.18, without any supported configuration option.
